# Achievement3 RockbusterSQL
<p>Introduction<br>Rockbuster  Stealth  LLC  is  a  movie  rental  company  that  used  to  have  stores  around  the<br>world.   Facing  stiff  competition  from  streaming  services  such  as  Netflix  and  Amazon  Prime,  the  Rockbuster  Stealth  management  team  is  planning  to  use  its  existing  movie  licenses  to<br>launch  an  online  video  rental  service  in  order  to  stay  competitive.<br>You’ve  been  hired  as  a  data  analyst  by  Rockbuster  Stealth’s  business  intelligence  (BI)  department  to  help  with  the  launch  strategy  for  the  new  online  video  service.  The  BI  department  helps  other  departments,  from  inventory  to  customer  insights,  with  data-related  queries.  Your  first  task  is  to  load  all  of  Rockbuster’s  data  into  a  relational  database  management  system  (RDBMS).  Then,  you’ll  use  SQL  to  analyze  the  data  and  answer  any  ad-hoc  business  questions  that  other  departments  may  have.<br>Before  you  can  begin  your  analysis  and  answer  more  complex  business  questions,  you’ll  need  to  acquire  a  good  understanding  of  the  various  data  points.  You’ll  eventually  compile  the  results  of  your  analysis  into  an  easily  digestible  format,  which  will  be  presented  to  the  Rockbuster  Stealth  Management  Board.<br>Key  Questions  and  Objectives<br>The  Rockbuster  Stealth  Management  Board  has  asked  a  series  of  business  questions  and  they  expect  data-driven  answers  that  they  can  use  for  their  2020   company  strategy.  Here  are  the  main  questions  they’d  like  to  answer:<br>● Which  movies  contributed  the  most/least  to  revenue  gain?<br>● What  was  the  average  rental  duration  for  all  videos?<br>● Which  countries  are  Rockbuster  customers  based  in?<br>● Where  are  customers  with  a  high  lifetime  value  based?<br>● Do  sales  figures  vary  between  geographic  regions?<br>Context<br>To  answer  the  questions  posed  by  the  different  departments,  you’ll  query  the  data  using  SQL  (short  for  structured  query  language).  Throughout  this  Achievement,  you’ll  learn  SQL  incrementally,  and  you’ll  use  it  to  answer  increasingly  complex  business  questions  for  each  task.  The  results  of  your  analysis  will  be  presented  to  Rockbuster  management,  so  you’ll  need  to  visualize  the  data  in  an  easy-to-consume  manner.  In  other  words,  you’ll  build  on  what  you’ve  learned  in  previous  Achievements.<br>Although  you’ll  be  working  with  data  from  the  online  video  streaming  industry  for  this  project,  the  skills  you  develop  could  be  applied  to  any  industry  and  will  highlight  your  ability  to  solve  problems  for  a  variety  of  clients.  The  aim  is  to  give  you  hands-on  experience  with  SQL.  By  the  time  you  finish  your  project,  you’ll  be  able  to  use  SQL  to  perform  various  kinds  of  query-based  analyses.<br>Data  Set<br>In  this  Achievement,  you’ll  be  using  a  data  set  that  contains  information  about  Rockbuster’s  film  inventory,  customers,  and  payments,  among  other  things.  The  first  thing  you’ll  need  to  do  is  load  the  data  set  into  the  PostgreSQL  database.  Keep  in  mind  the  following  points  regarding  the  data  set:<br>● It’s  around  3MB   and  contains  several  files.<br>● A  relationship  exists  between  two  tables  if  a  column  name  is  present  in  both  tables.<br>To  install  PostgreSQL  and  load  the  Rockbuster  data  set  into  it,  follow  the  instructions  in  Exercise  3.1:  Introduction  to  Relational  Databases  carefully.<br>● Download  the  Rockbuster  data  set<br>● Download  PostgreSQL  Database  (for  Windows,  macOS  X,  and  Linux)<br>Project  Deliverables<br>At  the  end  of  each  Exercise,  you’ll  complete  a  task  and  submit  a  deliverable  that  directly  contributes  to  your  final  project—in  this  case,  an  analysis  that  answers  business  questions  put  forward  by  the  management  team.<br>Your  tutor  will  review  and  give  you  feedback  on  your  deliverables  for  tasks  3.1   to  3.9.  Your  final  project,  which  you’ll  submit  at  the  end  of  Exercise  10,  will  be  reviewed  by  your  mentor,  who  will  also  give  you  feedback  on  how  your  project  relates  to  the  work  of  a  data  analyst.<br>Final  Analysis  Criteria<br>Your  final  project  will  be  evaluated  on  your  ability  to:<br>● Write  moderately  complex  SQL  queries  to  answer  business  questions.<br>● Present  your  SQL  results  to  business  managers  by  creating  visualizations  and  telling  a  compelling  story.<br>● Present  your  SQL  results  to  your  technical  colleagues  using  Excel  and  by  creating  a  data  dictionary.<br>● Create  a  professional  project  that  you  can  add  to  your  portfolio  and  show  to  employers. </p>
[Exercise 3.10 Rockbuster.pptx](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/20646709/Exercise.3.10.Rockbuster.pptx)
